---
title: "YDKJS: Up & Going"
excerpt: "You Don't Know JS Book 1: Up & Going"
categories: [JavaScript]
toc: true
---

So this is the first book in the YDKJS series.
Overall, its a nice introduction to both coding and what JS _actually_ is.
As I already knew a bit of coding and JS, I read through this book pretty quickly.
There were some things I found pretty interesting though - either I didn't know what it was called or it was something new.

## WTF is ECMAScript?

_ECMAScript_ is a scripting language specification, commonly referred to as ES.
Basically, it outlines all the rules a scripting language should have.
Anyone can create their own implementation of this language.
Why do we care?
Well, the most common implementation of ES is JavaScript!

JavaScript is the **implementation** of ES that runs in our web browsers.
This implementation is usually written in C++, like in Chrome's V8 engine and FireFox's SpiderMonkey engine.
Compare this to other implementations of ES, like JScript and ActionScript.
Node.js is also another implementation of ES, but it runs on Chrome's V8 engine as well, so it's not so different to the ES we see in Chrome.

Every year, a new specification is released, so we end up with versions of ES like ES5, ES6, ES7, etc.
This is great because we get new syntax and APIs we can use to help us make better, more legible code.
When a new ES spec is released, like ES2020 (guess what year that was released), the V8 and SpiderMonkey team go and create these new features and release them as a web browser update.
This is how the JS world keeps evolving and adding new and exciting things!

## Polyfilling and Transpiling

So what happens if you're coding using the most recent JS (e.g. based on ES2020) but your client has a web browser that only supports older JS versions (e.g. ES6)?
Are you expected to create a new file that uses the older syntax and serve them that?
Of course not!
That would be the biggest waste of time - developers would end up coding in older versions of JS, leaving them prone to security risks and unable to use cool new JS features.

Fortunately, we have apps that can automatically change new code into old code.
There are two things we need to look out for: new APIs and new syntax.

- _Polyfilling_ is when you create a new **API** from an old one.
- _Transpiling_ is when you create new **syntax** from old ones.

Fortunately, programs like [babel](https://github.com/babel/babel) can transpile and polyfill for us, so we do not have to worry about older JS versions and use new features as much as we like!

## Cool JS/Coding things!

### Coercion

_Coercion_ is the act of converting one variable type into another.

```js
var a = "42";
var b = Number(a);

console.log(a); // String --> "42"
console.log(b); // Number --> 42
```

Here, `a` is a String type, coerced into a Number type when assigned to `b`.
This type of coercion is called _explicit coercion_ because we coerced the variable ourselves.
On the other hand, _implicit coercion_ is when the JS engine coerces the variable.
For example `"42" === 42` converts the String to its Number equivalent, leaving `42 == 42`.

### `===` vs. `==`

<!-- TODO -->

### Closure

In JS, a _block_ is defined as all the code between a curly brace pair: `{ ... }`.

### `this`

<!-- TODO -->

### Event Delegation

<!-- TODO -->
